# Running ShiftLeft Protect

Running ShiftLeft Protect is different for Java or .NET Framework applications. Before using ShiftLeft Protect, make sure you have met all [product requirements](../../introduction/requirements.md). 

Once your application is running with ShiftLeft Protect, activity is shown on the [ShiftLeft Dashboard](..using-dashboard/vulnerability-dashboard.md).

You may also want to [configure the ShiftLeft Protect Microagent](../protect/configuring-the-microagent.md) for your environment.

## Running ShiftLeft Protect for Java Applications

For Java applications, the required ShiftLeft Inspect code analysis can be performed either as a [separate step before runtime](../inspect/analyzing-applications.md), or at runtime as part of the process of running ShiftLeft Protect. 

When you analyze your code at runtime, ShiftLeft first submits your application to the cloud for analysis. If analysis has previously been performed on this version of the application, then no further analysis is performed and the application is started immediately. Otherwise, analysis takes place before starting ShiftLeft Protect, and therefore it may take a few minutes for the application to start.

You use the [ShiftLeft Command Line Interface (CLI)](../using-cli/cli-reference.md) to run your application with ShiftLeft Protect, specifically

```
sl run \
  --app <name>\
  --analyze target/<jar> \
  -- java -jar target/<delimits flags>
```

where

`--app <name>`. Specifies your applications unique name.

`--analyze <jar>`. (Optional) Use if you want your application to be analyzed at runtime. Points to your application's JAR.

`-- <delimits flags>`.  From the command to be wrapped. 

## Running ShiftLeft Protect for .NET Framework Applications

For .NET Framework 64-bit applications, the required ShiftLeft Inspect code analysis must be performed as a [separate step before running ShiftLeft Protect](../inspect/analyzing-applications.md). In addition, make sure you are running on a Windows operating system that has at least .NET Framework Runtime 4.5 installed. 

If you are running ShiftLeft Protect with Internet Information Services (IIS), first copy the `shiftleft.json` file (that was generated by ShiftLeft Inspect during analysis) into the `C:\shiftleftDotNetAgent\spr` directory. You can then start sending requests to your application in the usual manner (e.g., through a browser or a script). The ShiftLeft Protect Microagent is activated once your application receives its first request.

If you are running ShiftLeft Protect with IIS Express, start the application through the ShiftLeft CLI as follows:

```
"C:\Program Files\Shiftleft\sl.exe" run --csharp "C:\Program Files\IIS Express\iisexpress.exe" <full path to the project location>
```
You can then send requests to the target application using the method of your choice, such as a browser or a utility like curl. For IIS Express, your application runs on port 8500, for example curl http://<span></span>localhost:8500/vulnerable_asp_net_framework.
